23.0.0.3 staging (#3035)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2023-04-04-23.0.0.3.adoc

[#jakarta10]
== Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile, Web Profile, and Platform
Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile, Web Profile and Platform are now officially supported in Open Liberty! We'd like start by takin the time to thank all those that provided feedback throughout our various betas.

Jakarta EE 10 marks a major milestone as it is the first release to provide updates to the specifications since Java EE 8 in 2017, and therefore, the first release to provide spec updates since being taken over by the Eclipse Foundation. Among the many updates to existing specifications, it also introduces the Core Profile. The Core Profile is specifically aimed at lightweight runtimes, like Open Liberty, that are optimized for running cloud-native Java microservices.
 
Liberty provides convenience features for running all of the component specifications that are contained in the Jakarta EE 10 Web Profile (`link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/webProfile-10.0.html[webProfile-10.0]`) and Jakarta EE 10 Platform (`link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/jakartaee-10.0.html[jakartaee-10.0]`).  For Jakarta EE 10 features in the application client, use the `jakartaeeClient-10.0` Liberty feature.

> Using these convenience features enables developers to rapidly develop applications using all of the APIs contained in the Web Profile and Platform specifications.  Unlike the `webProfile-9.1` Liberty feature, the `webProfile-10` Liberty feature does not enable the XML Binding feature, because XML Binding is not a Web Profile component specification. If your application relies on XML Binding APIs, you must explicitly enable the `xmlBinding-4.0` Liberty feature when using the `webProfile-10.0` feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using these convenience features enables developers to rapidly develop applications using all of the APIs contained in the Web Profile and Platform specifications.  Unlike the `webProfile-9.1` Liberty feature, the `webProfile-10.0` Liberty feature does not enable the XML Binding feature, because XML Binding is not a Web Profile component specification. If your application relies on XML Binding APIs, you must explicitly enable the `xmlBinding-4.0` Liberty feature when using the `webProfile-10.0` feature.

```

The full list of specifications that make up the three profiles is as follows:

[#coreprofile]
== Jakarta EE Core Profile 10
[cols="4,2,3"]
|===

> |Specification |Updates |Feature Documentation

Reviewer 2: Not sure why this isn't rendering the header properly....

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/batch/2.1/[Batch 2.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/batch-2.1.html[batch-2.1]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/connectors/2.1/[Connectors 2.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/connectors-2.1.html[connectors-2.1]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/mail/2.1/[Mail 2.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mail-2.1.html[mail-2.1]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/messaging/3.1/[Messaging 3.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/messaging-3.1.html[messaging-3.1]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/enterprise-beans/4.0/[Enterprise Beans 4.0]
|No change
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/enterpriseBeans-4.0.html[enterpriseBeans-4.0]

|===

To enable all the Jakarta EE Platform 10 features, add the following to your `server.xml`:
[source,xml]
----
  <featureManager>
    <feature>jakartaee-10.0</feature>
  </featureManager>
----

Similarly, to enable all the Jakarta EE Web Profile 10 features, add instead:
[source,xml]
----
  <featureManager>
    <feature>webProfile-10.0</feature>
  </featureManager>
----

> 

Reviewer: Should add the snippet on how to enable all the Jakarta EE Core Profile 10 feature.

To run Jakarta EE 10 features on the Application Client Container, add the following in your application's `client.xml`:
[source,xml]
----
 <featureManager>
       <feature>jakartaeeClient-10.0</feature>
 </featureManager>
----
For more information reference:

> * https://jakarta.ee/specifications/platform/10/[Jakarta EE Platform 10], https://jakarta.ee/specifications/webprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Web Profile 10], and link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/coreprofile/10/[Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile] specifications. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* https://jakarta.ee/specifications/platform/10/[Jakarta EE Platform 10], https://jakarta.ee/specifications/webprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Web Profile 10], and link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/coreprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Core Profile 10] specifications. 

```

* link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/javadoc/liberty-jakartaee10-javadoc.html[Jakarta EE 10 Javadoc]

   
// DO NOT MODIFY THIS LINE. </GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> 

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // // 
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24582
// Contact/Reviewer: ReeceNana,Emily-Jiang
// // // // // // // // 
[#mp6]
== MicroProfile 6.0   

> MicroProfile continues to innovate how the industry optimizes Java microservices.  The MicroProfile 6.0 release enables applications to use MicroProfile APIs together with <<core, Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile>> along with various other new functionality and improvements. The complete list of specifications that make up MicroProfile 6.0 is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MicroProfile continues to innovate how the industry optimizes Java microservices.  The MicroProfile 6.0 release enables applications to use MicroProfile APIs together with <<core, Jakarta EE Core Profile 10>> along with various other new functionality and improvements. The complete list of specifications that make up MicroProfile 6.0 is as follows:

```

[[openapi]]
|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-open-api/releases/tag/3.1[MicroProfile OpenAPI 3.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpOpenAPI-3.1.html[mpOpenAPI-3.1]

[[jwt]]
|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-jwt-auth/releases/tag/2.1[MicroProfile JWT Authentication 2.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpJwt-2.1.html[mpJwt-2.1]

|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-config/releases/tag/3.0.2[MicroProfile Config 3.0]
|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpConfig-3.0.html[mpConfig-3.0]

|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-health/releases/tag/4.0.1[MicroProfile Health 4.0]
|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpHealth-4.0.html[mpHealth-4.0]

|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-rest-client/releases/tag/3.0.1[MicroProfile Rest Client 3.0]
|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpRestClient-3.0.html[mpRestClient-3.0]

|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-fault-tolerance/releases/tag/4.0.2[MicroProfile Fault Tolerance 4.0]
|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpFaultTolerance-4.0.html[mpFaultTolerance-4.0]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/coreprofile/10/[Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/coreprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Core Profile 10]

```

|New

> |link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpFaultTolerance-4.0.html[mpFaultTolerance-4.0]

Reviewer: should we put the two features for the core?

Reviewer 2: Ah, this was a placeholder to link back to the core profile table (I started with MP 6 first)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|<<coreprofile, See Core Profile table>>

```

# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/mbroz2
author_github: https://github.com/mbroz2
seo-title: Jakarta EE 10, MicroProfile 6, and Java SE 20 support in Open Liberty 23.0.0.3 - OpenLiberty.io
seo-description: We're thrilled to announce the release of Open Liberty 23.0.0.3, one of the biggest releases of the runtime since its debut over 5 years ago!  This release includes Jakarta EE 10 (Core Profile, Web Profile, and Platform), MicroProfile 6, and Java SE 20 support.
blog_description: We're thrilled to announce the release of Open Liberty 23.0.0.3, one of the biggest releases of the runtime since its debut over 5 years ago!  This release includes Jakarta EE 10 (Core Profile, Web Profile, and Platform), MicroProfile 6, and Java SE 20 support.
open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
open-graph-image-alt: Open Liberty Logo
---
= Jakarta EE 10, MicroProfile 6, and Java SE 20 support in Open Liberty 23.0.0.3
Michal Broz <https://github.com/mbroz2>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

> We're thrilled to announce the release of Open Liberty 23.0.0.3, one of the biggest releases of the runtime since its debut over 5 years ago!  This release includes Jakarta EE 10 Platform, Web Profile, and, for the first time, Core Profile.  Many new enhancements have been added throughout the majority of the features that make up the profiles.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We're thrilled to announce the release of Open Liberty 23.0.0.3, one of the biggest releases of the runtime since its debut over 5 years ago!  This release includes Jakarta EE 10 Platform, Web Profile, and, for the first time, Core Profile.  Many new enhancements have been added throughout most of the features that make up the profiles.

```

A really really trivial suggestion that's completely up to you what you think. I included it because I tripped over the sentence on first reading and this might make it a a little simpler to read/parse?

> MicroProfile 6, which includes Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile, also makes its formal debut in the 23.0.0.3 release.  It includes the new MicroProfile Telemetry 1.0 feature as well as updates to the Metrics, OpenAPI, and JWT Authentication specifications.

Reviewer 4: So have we agreed yet if it is "Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile" or "Jakarta EE Core Profile 10"?! ;-)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
MicroProfile 6, which includes Jakarta EE Core Profile 10, also makes its formal debut in the 23.0.0.3 release.  It includes the new MicroProfile Telemetry 1.0 feature as well as updates to the Metrics, OpenAPI, and JWT Authentication specifications.

```

> Support for Java SE 20, latest version as of writing, is also introduced in the 23.0.0.3 release and provides various new features as well as changes.  Many notable bug fixes are also included in this release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Support for Java SE 20, the latest version as of writing, is also introduced in the 23.0.0.3 release and provides various new features as well as changes.  Many notable bug fixes are also included in this release.

```

// Over the past several beta releases, we've had many users try and provide feedback on various Jakarta EE 10 and MicroProfile 6 features.  We've received many questions on when the functionality would GA.  Well, the when is now!  Open Liberty 23.0.0.3 includes Jakarta EE 10 (Core Profile, Web Profile, and Platform), MicroProfile 6, and Java SE 20 support.
// You wanted Jakarta EE 10? You got it! How about MicroProfile 6? Sure, why not!  A Cherry on top? How about Java SE 20 support!

In link:{url-about}[Open Liberty] 23.0.0.3:

* <<jakarta10, Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile, Web Profile, and Platform>>
** <<coreprofile, Core Profile>>
** <<webprofile, Web Profile>>

> ** <<platform, Platfrom>>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
** <<platform, Platform>>

```

Check out link:{url-prefix}/blog/?search=release&search!=beta[previous Open Liberty GA release blog posts].

[#run]

== Run your apps using 23.0.0.3

If you're using link:{url-prefix}/guides/maven-intro.html[Maven], here are the coordinates:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.openliberty</groupId>
    <artifactId>openliberty-runtime</artifactId>
    <version>23.0.0.3</version>
    <type>zip</type>
</dependency>
----

Or for link:{url-prefix}/guides/gradle-intro.html[Gradle]:

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    libertyRuntime group: 'io.openliberty', name: 'openliberty-runtime', version: '[23.0.0.3,)'
}
----

Or if you're using Docker:

[source]
----
FROM open-liberty
----

Or take a look at our link:{url-prefix}/downloads/[Downloads page].

[link=https://stackoverflow.com/tags/open-liberty]
image::img/blog/blog_btn_stack.svg[Ask a question on Stack Overflow, align="center"]

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // // 
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24758
// Contact/Reviewer: jhanders34,ReeceNana
// // // // // // // // 
[#jakarta10]
== Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile, Web Profile, and Platform

> Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile, Web Profile and Platform are now officially supported in Open Liberty! We'd like start by takin the time to thank all those that provided feedback throughout our various betas.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile, Web Profile and Platform are now officially supported in Open Liberty! We'd like start by taking the time to thank all those that provided feedback throughout our various betas.

```

typo

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile, Web Profile and Platform are now officially supported in Open Liberty! We'd like to start by taking the time to thank all those who provided feedback throughout our various betas.

```

> Jakarta EE 10 marks a major milestone as it is the first release to provide updates to the specifications since Java EE 8 in 2017, and therefore, the first release to provide spec updates since being taken over by the Eclipse Foundation. Among the many updates to existing specifications, it also introduces the Core Profile. The Core Profile is specifically aimed at lightweight runtimes, like Open Liberty, that are optimized for running cloud-native Java microservices.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Jakarta EE 10 marks a major milestone as it is the first release to provide updates to the specifications since Java EE 8 in 2017 and, therefore, the first release to provide spec updates since being taken over by the Eclipse Foundation. Among the many updates to existing specifications, it also introduces the Core Profile. The Core Profile is specifically aimed at lightweight runtimes, like Open Liberty, that are optimized for running cloud-native Java microservices.

```

 
Liberty provides convenience features for running all of the component specifications that are contained in the Jakarta EE 10 Web Profile (`link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/webProfile-10.0.html[webProfile-10.0]`) and Jakarta EE 10 Platform (`link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/jakartaee-10.0.html[jakartaee-10.0]`).  For Jakarta EE 10 features in the application client, use the `jakartaeeClient-10.0` Liberty feature.

> Using these convenience features enables developers to rapidly develop applications using all of the APIs contained in the Web Profile and Platform specifications.  Unlike the `webProfile-9.1` Liberty feature, the `webProfile-10.0` Liberty feature does not enable the XML Binding feature, because XML Binding is not a Web Profile component specification. If your application relies on XML Binding APIs, you must explicitly enable the `xmlBinding-4.0` Liberty feature when using the `webProfile-10.0` feature.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using these convenience features enables developers to rapidly develop applications using all of the APIs contained in the Web Profile and Platform specifications. If you've previously used the `webProfile-9.1` Liberty convenience feature, note that, unlike the `webProfile-9.1` feature, the `webProfile-10.0` Liberty feature does not enable the XML Binding feature because XML Binding is not a Web Profile component specification. If your application relies on XML Binding APIs, you must explicitly enable the `xmlBinding-4.0` Liberty feature when using the `webProfile-10.0` feature.

```

On first reading it was unclear to me how this note about migration related to the first sentence. I see that it's about convenience features and that makes sense but I think it needs to be clearer about who it's relevant to.

Also, could we say why this has changed, be transparent and not leave them guessing? Is it a spec/profile change or did we make a mistake by including it in the 9.1 conv feature and now we're fixing that?

Reviewer 4: Wouldn't this be better as just a footnote rather than as part of a main paragraph?

Reviewer 2: @tevans78 I also thought about just dropping this all together from the post.  It seemed too 'into the weeds' compared to the broad scope nature of the remaining content.  (This was pulled in from beta post content, and I wanted exactly this feedback)

Reviewer 2: I'm going to commit the suggestion for now, but I think I'm going to come back and remove this paragraph all together.

Reviewer 5: I agree with removing this paragraph.

The full list of specifications that make up the three profiles is as follows:

[#coreprofile]

> == Jakarta EE Core Profile 10

Reviewer 3: Think this should be an H3 `===` heading because it's a sub-section beneath the previous H2 heading?

> == Jakarta EE Core Profile 10

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Jakarta EE Core Profile 10

```

[cols="4,2,3",options="header"]
|===
|Specification |Updates |Feature Documentation

[[jsonb]]

> |https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-open-api/releases/tag/3.1[JSON Binding 3.0]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/jsonb/3.0/[JSON Binding 3.0]

```

|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/jsonb-3.0.html[jsonb-3.0]

[[rest]]
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/restful-ws/3.1/jakarta-restful-ws-spec-3.1.html[RESTful Web Services 3.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/restfulWS-3.1.html[restfulWS-3.1], link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/restfulWS-3.1.html[restfulWSClient-3.1]

[[jsonp]]

> |https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-metrics/releases/tag/5.0[JSON Processing 2.1]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/jsonp/2.1/[JSON Processing 2.1]

```

|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/jsonp-2.1.html[jsonp-2.1]

[[cdi]]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/annotations/1.3/[Annotations 1.3] & https://jakarta.ee/specifications/interceptors/2.1/[Interceptors 2.1]

Reviewer 4: It is Annotations 2.1, not 1.3

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/annotations/2.1/[Annotations 2.1] & https://jakarta.ee/specifications/interceptors/2.1/[Interceptors 2.1]

```

|Minor updates
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/cdi-4.0.html[cdi-4.0]

[[cdi]]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/annotations/1.3/[Dependency Injection 2.0]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/dependency-injection/2.0/[Dependency Injection 2.0]

```

|Unchanged

> |link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/cdi-4.0.html[cdi-4.0]

Reviewer 4: You've mentioned CDI multiple times in this table but not listed it as a core profile spec? The core profile contains 7 specs but there are only 5 rows in the table?
```
    Jakarta Annotations 2.1
    Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection (CDI) 4.0 (CDI Lite section)
    Jakarta Dependency Injection 2.0
    Jakarta Interceptors 2.1
    Jakarta JSON Processing 2.1
    Jakarta JSON Binding 3.0
    Jakarta RESTful Web Services 3.1
```

Reviewer 2: CDI Lite is a bit of an oddity.  I tried to handle it via the NOTE under the table, but perhaps that was the wrong way to go and instead I'll move it back into the table and link directly to the CDI Lite portion of the CDI spec.

|===

NOTE: Jakarta EE Core Profile 10 also introduces CDI Lite 4.0, which is a subset of the features provided by CDI 4.0 and is therefore made available as part of the link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/cdi-4.0.html[cdi-4.0] feature.

[#webprofile]
== Jakarta EE Web Profile 10

> [cols="4,2,3"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[cols="4,2,3",options="header"]

```

|===
|Specification |Updates |Liberty Feature Documentation

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/coreprofile/10/[Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile]
|New
|<<coreprofile, See previous table>>

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/authentication/3.0/[Authentication 3.0]
|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/appAuthentication-3.0.html[appAuthentication-3.0]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/cdi/4.0/[Context Dependency Injection 4.0]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/cdi/4.0/[Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection 4.0]

```

Reviewer 2: Hmm, the Jakarta page doesn't include "and"

> Jakarta Context Dependency Injection 4.0

But the umbrella spec does.  
However, since this page is linking to the spec page that doesn't include 'and', I think it's best to not include it here either.

Reviewer 4: Appears they are being inconsistent about it. The title of the actual spec doc includes "and" but other mentions around their site do not.

Reviewer 2: unfortunately I've noticed several inconsistencies like that

|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/cdi-4.0.html[cdi-4.0]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/concurrency/3.0/[Concurrency 3.0]
|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/concurrent-3.0.html[concurrent-3.0]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/expression-language/5.0/[Expression Language 5.0]
|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/expressionLanguage-5.0.html[expressionLanguage-5.0]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/faces/4.0/[Expression Language 5.0]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/faces/4.0/[Server Faces 4.0]

```

Reviewer 4: If you are listing specs and linking to the docs then I think you should give them all their formal names, which start with "Jakarta".

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/faces/4.0/[Jakarta Faces 4.0]
```

`Server` was removed from the name.

Reviewer 4: Well that'll teach me for using the spec as a reference!
https://jakarta.ee/specifications/webprofile/10/jakarta-webprofile-spec-10.0.html#a43

Reviewer 5: https://jakarta.ee/specifications/faces/4.0/ has it right.  Looks like a small defect in the jakarta platform repo is in order to fix that.

Reviewer 2: I did initially, but then it looked extremely repetitive since all of them started with "Jakarta" and the table title already includes "Jakarta".  But I'm not opposed to adding "Jakarta" back in if we feel we need it.

Reviewer 4: I think we should ... you included "MicroProfile" on the front of all of those spec names

|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/faces-4.0.html[faces-4.0]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/security/3.0/[Security 3.0]
|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/appSecurity-5.0.html[appSecurity-5.0]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/servlet/6.0/[Servlet 6.0]
|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/servlet-6.0.html[servlet-6.0]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/tags/3.0/[Standard Tag Library 3.0]
|Major update

> |link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/servlet-6.0.html[pages-3.1]

Reviewer 4: I don't know what the correct link is but this looks pretty wrong, as does the label

> |link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/servlet-6.0.html[pages-3.1]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/pages-3.1.html[pages-3.1]

```

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/persistence/3.1/[Persistence 3.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/persistence-3.1.html[persistence-3.1]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/pages/3.1/[Server Pages 3.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/pages-3.1.html[pages-3.1]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/websocket/2.1/[WebSocket 2.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/websocket-2.1.html[websocket-2.1]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/bean-validation/3.0/[Bean Validation 3.0]
|No change
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/beanValidation-3.0.html[beanValidation-3.0]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/debugging/2.0/[Debugging Support for Other Languages 2.0]
|No change
|Not applicable

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/enterprise-beans/4.0/[Enterprise Beans Lite 4.0]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/enterprise-beans/4.0/[Enterprise Beans 4.0 Lite]

```

Reviewer 2: I've seen this one referenced both ways, but the umbrella spec does reference it with Lite at the end so I'll change it to that

|No change
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/enterpriseBeansLite-4.0.html[enterpriseBeansLite-4.0]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/managedbeans/2.0/[Managed Beans 2.0]
|No change
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/managedBeans-2.0.html[managedBeans-2.0]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/transactions/2.0/[Transactions 2.0]
|No change
|Not applicable (see link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/javadoc/liberty-jakartaee10-javadoc.html?package=allclasses-frame.html&class=jakarta/transaction/package-summary.html[Javadoc])

|===

[#platform]

> == Jakarta EE Platform 10

Reviewer 4: Where does "Jakarta Common Annotations 2.1" fit in to this table?

> == Jakarta EE Platform 10

Reviewer 4: Although Jakarta XML Binding (mentioned earlier) is optional ~and not included in our `jakartaee-10.0` feature~, should it still be listed in this table? Might be worth checking on the other optional technologies as well...
```
    Jakarta Enterprise Beans 3.2 and earlier entity beans and associated Jakarta Enterprise Beans QL
    Jakarta Enterprise Beans 2.x API group
    Jakarta Enterprise Web Services 2.0
    Jakarta SOAP with Attachments 3.0
    Jakarta XML Web Services 4.0
    Jakarta XML Binding 4.0
```
i.e. is this a list of the technologies that make up Jakarta EE 10 or is it a list of the features which we include in our `jakartaee-10.0` feature?

Reviewer 5: XML Binding is included in the jakartaee-10.0 Liberty convenience feature.

Reviewer 2: The tables are intended to show what is included in and mandated by the umbrella specs.

Reviewer 2: If we wanted to list the optional portions, we'd either need to add a column to the table to mark 'mandatory' vs 'optional', or create a separate table for the 'optional' specs.

> [cols="4,2,3"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[cols="4,2,3",options="header"]

```

|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/appAuthorization-2.1.html[appAuthorization-2.1]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/activation/2.1/[Activation 2.1]
|Minor update
|Not applicable (see link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/javadoc/liberty-jakartaee10-javadoc.html?package=allclasses-frame.html&class=jakarta/activation/package-summary.html[Javadoc])

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/batch/2.1/[Batch 2.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/batch-2.1.html[batch-2.1]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/connectors/2.1/[Connectors 2.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/connectors-2.1.html[connectors-2.1]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/mail/2.1/[Mail 2.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mail-2.1.html[mail-2.1]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/messaging/3.1/[Messaging 3.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/messaging-3.1.html[messaging-3.1]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/enterprise-beans/4.0/[Enterprise Beans 4.0]
|No change
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/enterpriseBeans-4.0.html[enterpriseBeans-4.0]

|===

> 

Reviewer 3: Nice tables :)

> To enable all the Jakarta EE Platform 10 features, add the following to your `server.xml`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To enable all the Jakarta EE Platform 10 features, add the following entry to your `server.xml`:

```

Reviewer 4: As noted above, it isn't all features, it doesn't include some of the optional ones.

Reviewer 2: It includes all the mandatory features listed in the tables above.  Our description of the convenience feature currently states "This feature combines the Liberty features that support the Jakarta EE 10.0 Platform."

[source,xml]
----
  <featureManager>
    <feature>jakartaee-10.0</feature>
  </featureManager>
----

> Similarly, to enable all the Jakarta EE Web Profile 10 features, add instead:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Alternatively, to enable all the Jakarta EE Web Profile 10 features, instead add:

```

> Similarly, to enable all the Jakarta EE Web Profile 10 features, add instead:

Reviewer 4: As noted above, it isn't _all_ features, it doesn't include some of the optional ones.

[source,xml]
----
  <featureManager>
    <feature>webProfile-10.0</feature>
  </featureManager>
----

> To enable the Jakarta EE Core Profile 10 features, add the following to your `server.xml`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Alternatively, to enable the Jakarta EE Core Profile 10 features, add:

```

I assume these are all mutually exclusive but for some reason we don't have a Core conv feature?

Reviewer 2: Correct

[source,xml]
----
  <featureManager>
    <feature>jsonb-3.0</feature>
    <feature>jsonp-2.1</feature>
    <feature>cdi-4.0</feature>
    <feature>restfulWS-3.1</feature>
  </featureManager>
----

> To run Jakarta EE 10 features on the Application Client Container, add the following in your application's `client.xml`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To run Jakarta EE 10 features on the Application Client Container, add the following entry in your application's `client.xml`:

```

[source,xml]
----
 <featureManager>
       <feature>jakartaeeClient-10.0</feature>
 </featureManager>
----
For more information reference:

* https://jakarta.ee/specifications/platform/10/[Jakarta EE Platform 10], https://jakarta.ee/specifications/webprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Web Profile 10], and link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/coreprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Core Profile 10] specifications. 

* link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/javadoc/liberty-jakartaee10-javadoc.html[Jakarta EE 10 Javadoc]

   
// DO NOT MODIFY THIS LINE. </GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> 

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // // 
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24582
// Contact/Reviewer: ReeceNana,Emily-Jiang
// // // // // // // // 
[#mp6]
== MicroProfile 6.0   

MicroProfile continues to innovate how the industry optimizes Java microservices.  The MicroProfile 6.0 release enables applications to use MicroProfile APIs together with <<core, Jakarta EE Core Profile 10>> along with various other new functionality and improvements. The complete list of specifications that make up MicroProfile 6.0 is as follows:

> [cols="4,2,3"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[cols="4,2,3",options="header"]

```

|===
|Specification |Updates |Liberty Feature Documentation

> 

Reviewer 3: Table header isn't rendering in the right font.

|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpOpenAPI-3.1.html[mpOpenAPI-3.1]

[[jwt]]
|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-jwt-auth/releases/tag/2.1[MicroProfile JWT Authentication 2.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpJwt-2.1.html[mpJwt-2.1]

|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-config/releases/tag/3.0.2[MicroProfile Config 3.0]
|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpConfig-3.0.html[mpConfig-3.0]

|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-health/releases/tag/4.0.1[MicroProfile Health 4.0]
|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpHealth-4.0.html[mpHealth-4.0]

|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-rest-client/releases/tag/3.0.1[MicroProfile Rest Client 3.0]
|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpRestClient-3.0.html[mpRestClient-3.0]

|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-fault-tolerance/releases/tag/4.0.2[MicroProfile Fault Tolerance 4.0]
|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpFaultTolerance-4.0.html[mpFaultTolerance-4.0]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/coreprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Core Profile 10]

|New

> |<<coreprofile, See Core Profile table>>

Reviewer 4: Suggest making Core Profile first in the list as that is what everything else is built on top of

Reviewer 2: I struggled with the order.  I decided to lead with MP Telemetry since it's an MP spec rather then leading with a Jakarta spec in the MP section.  Also, currently the ToC for the MP6 section only links to the 4 MP features that have changed, which nicely aligns with the first 4 features in the table.  I'm not sure if I want to keep it that way, but something for us to consider depending on how we want to handle this.
I'll delay this change for now.

|===

> You can enable the MicroProfile 6 feature by using the `microProfile-6.0` feature in the server.xml file:

Reviewer 3: Style thing: just use the same format of lead-in sentence for each server.xml instruction. Don't vary the wording each time; just keep it simple and recognisable so that it's clear that nothing is different except the code that you add.

[source,xml]
----
<featureManager>
    <feature>microProfile-6.0</feature>
</featureManager>
----
    

> To find out more, take a look at the MicroProfile 6.0 https://download.eclipse.org/microprofile/microprofile-6.0/microprofile-spec-6.0.html[specification], https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile/releases/tag/6.0-RC3[release], and link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/javadoc/microprofile-6.0-javadoc.html[Javadoc]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To find out more, take a look at the MicroProfile 6.0 https://download.eclipse.org/microprofile/microprofile-6.0/microprofile-spec-6.0.html[specification], https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile/releases/tag/6.0-RC3[release], and link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/javadoc/microprofile-6.0-javadoc.html[Javadoc].

```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To find out more, take a look at the MicroProfile 6.0 https://download.eclipse.org/microprofile/microprofile-6.0/microprofile-spec-6.0.html[specification], https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile/releases/tag/6.0[release], and link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/javadoc/microprofile-6.0-javadoc.html[Javadoc].

```

   
// DO NOT MODIFY THIS LINE. </GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> 

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // // 
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24759
// Contact/Reviewer: gjwatts,ReeceNana
// // // // // // // // 
[#java20]
== Support for Java SE 20

Java 20 includes the following features and changes:

* 429: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/429[Scoped Values (Incubator)]
* 432: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/432[Record Patterns (Second Preview)]
* 433: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/433[Pattern Matching for switch (Fourth Preview)]
* 434: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/434[Foreign Function & Memory API (Second Preview)]
* 436: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/436[Virtual Threads (Second Preview)]
* 437: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/437[Structured Concurrency (Second Incubator)]

To use Java 20: 

> 1. link:https://jdk.java.net/20/[Download the early access release of Java 20]. 

Reviewer 6: Please change
```
link:https://jdk.java.net/20/[Download the early access release of Java 20].
```
to
```
link:https://adoptium.net/temurin/releases/?version=20[Download Java 20].
```

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. link:https://adoptium.net/temurin/releases/?version=20[Download Java 20].

```

> 1. link:https://jdk.java.net/20/[Download the early access release of Java 20]. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. link:https://adoptium.net/temurin/releases/?version=20[Download Java 20].

```

> 2. Install the <<run,23.0.0.3-beta>> version of Open Liberty.

Reviewer 6: Please change
```
Install the <<run,23.0.0.3-beta>> version of Open Liberty.
```
to
```
Install the <<run,23.0.0.3>> version of Open Liberty.
```

Reviewer 3: Also, is "install" the right word here?  You don't really install; you add it to your application or something like that. Installing sounds like you've to download a zip file old-school, which is misleading as you don't.

Reviewer 4: Well install is a good word if you are using an Open Liberty zip which you downloaded from openliberty.io ... but I think you are saying that the wording should reflect the fact that some people may be trying this out through maven or gradle (I don't think we have a Java 20 docker image yet?).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Obtainl the <<run,23.0.0.3>> version of Open Liberty.

```

3. Edit your Liberty link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/config/server-configuration-overview.html#server-env[server.env file] to point `JAVA_HOME` to your Java 20 installation.

> For more information on Java 20, please visit the Java 20 link:https://jdk.java.net/20/release-notes[release notes page], link:https://download.java.net/java/early_access/jdk20/docs/api/[API Javadoc page], link:https://jdk.java.net/20/[download page] or link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/migrate/toc.htm[Java 20 migration guide].

Reviewer 6: Please change
```
link:https://download.java.net/java/early_access/jdk20/docs/api/[API Javadoc page]
```
to
```
link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/docs/api/index.html[API Javadoc page]
```

and 

```
link:https://jdk.java.net/20/[download page]
```
to
```
link:https://adoptium.net/temurin/releases/?version=20[download page]
```

Reviewer 3: And lose the "please visit" bit, it's unnecessarily wordy. Something like "For more information on Java 20, see"

> For more information on Java 20, please visit the Java 20 link:https://jdk.java.net/20/release-notes[release notes page], link:https://download.java.net/java/early_access/jdk20/docs/api/[API Javadoc page], link:https://jdk.java.net/20/[download page] or link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/migrate/toc.htm[Java 20 migration guide].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information on Java 20, reference the Java 20 link:https://jdk.java.net/20/release-notes[release notes page], link:link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/docs/api/index.html[API Javadoc page], link:https://adoptium.net/temurin/releases/?version=20[download page] or link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/migrate/toc.htm[Java 20 migration guide].

```

> NOTE: To try out Java preview features in Open Liberty, make sure to compile with `--enable-preview` and add the same parameter to your link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/directory-locations-properties.html[`jvm.options` file].

Reviewer 6: Please change
```
NOTE: To try out Java preview features...
```
to
```
NOTE: To try out Java 20 preview features...
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: To try out Java 20 preview features in Open Liberty, make sure to compile with `--enable-preview` and add the same parameter to your link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/directory-locations-properties.html[`jvm.options` file].

```

   
// DO NOT MODIFY THIS LINE. </GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> 

[#bugs]
== Notable bugs fixed in this release

We’ve spent some time fixing bugs. The following sections describe just some of the issues resolved in this release. If you’re interested, here’s the link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues?q=label%3Arelease%3A23003+label%3A%22release+bug%22[full list of bugs fixed in 23.0.0.3].

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24651[Liberty Server Hang randomly]

> +

Reviewer 3: Random "+" gets rendered

Reviewer 2: This section is not ready for review

> Liberty Server hang happened randomly within docker containers which are deployed in k8s cluster in an Integration Pipeline. The javacore dumps were collected to analyze the issue. 

Reviewer 3: The text for this bug needs editing for clarity.

Reviewer 2: This section is not ready for review

          at com/ibm/ws/channel/ssl/internal/SSLConnectionLink.determineNextChannel(SSLConnectionLink.java:1129)
          at com/ibm/ws/channel/ssl/internal/SSLConnectionLink$MyReadCompletedCallback.complete(SSLConnectionLink.java:678)
          at com/ibm/ws/channel/ssl/internal/SSLReadServiceContext$SSLReadCompletedCallback.complete(SSLReadServiceContext.java:1824)
          at com/ibm/ws/tcpchannel/internal/WorkQueueManager.requestComplete(WorkQueueManager.java:514)
          at com/ibm/ws/tcpchannel/internal/WorkQueueManager.attemptIO(WorkQueueManager.java:584(Compiled Code))
          at com/ibm/ws/tcpchannel/internal/WorkQueueManager.workerRun(WorkQueueManager.java:968)
          at com/ibm/ws/tcpchannel/internal/WorkQueueManager$Worker.run(WorkQueueManager.java:1057)
          at com/ibm/ws/threading/internal/ExecutorServiceImpl$RunnableWrapper.run(ExecutorServiceImpl.java:245(Compiled Code))
          at java/util/concurrent/ThreadPoolExecutor.runWorker(Bytecode PC:94(Compiled Code))
          at java/util/concurrent/ThreadPoolExecutor$Worker.run(Bytecode PC:5)
          at java/lang/Thread.run(Bytecode PC:13)
```
+

> In another javacore generated in different time when server hang, there were thousands locks of `JIT-QueueSlotMonitor-<number> lock` like below, which is very abnormal

Reviewer 3: Again needs editing for clarity.

Reviewer 2: This section is not ready for review

+
The FFDC: 
```
Stack Dump = java.lang.ClassCastException: cannot assign instance of org.jboss.weld.event.EventImpl$SerializationProxy to field org.apache.myfaces.flow.cdi.FlowScopeContextualStorageHolder.flowDestroyedEvent of type jakarta.enterprise.event.Event in instance of org.apache.myfaces.flow.cdi.FlowScopeContextualStorageHolder
	at java.base/java.io.ObjectStreamClass$FieldReflector.setObjFieldValues(ObjectStreamClass.java:2076)
	at java.base/java.io.ObjectStreamClass$FieldReflector.checkObjectFieldValueTypes(ObjectStreamClass.java:2039)
	at java.base/java.io.ObjectStreamClass.checkObjFieldValueTypes(ObjectStreamClass.java:1293)
	at java.base/java.io.ObjectInputStream.defaultCheckFieldValues(ObjectInputStream.java:2512)
```
 

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24584[pluginUtility merge action generates incorrect output for some inputs]
+

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24566[AcmeCA feature with revocation enabled can fail to initialize on certain OS and JDK combinations]
+

> * link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24543[oidc client issue in cluster environment, starting 22.0.0.10 version]

Reviewer 3: Is this relevant to OL? I didn't think the cluster features were included.

Reviewer 2: This section is not ready for review

# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/mbroz2
author_github: https://github.com/mbroz2
seo-title: Jakarta EE 10, MicroProfile 6, and Java SE 20 support in Open Liberty 23.0.0.3 - OpenLiberty.io
seo-description: We're thrilled to announce the release of Open Liberty 23.0.0.3, one of the biggest releases of the runtime since its debut over 5 years ago!  This release includes Jakarta EE 10 (Core Profile, Web Profile, and Platform), MicroProfile 6, and Java SE 20 support.
blog_description: We're thrilled to announce the release of Open Liberty 23.0.0.3, one of the biggest releases of the runtime since its debut over 5 years ago!  This release includes Jakarta EE 10 (Core Profile, Web Profile, and Platform), MicroProfile 6, and Java SE 20 support.
open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
open-graph-image-alt: Open Liberty Logo
---
= Jakarta EE 10, MicroProfile 6, and Java SE 20 support in Open Liberty 23.0.0.3
Michal Broz <https://github.com/mbroz2>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

> We're thrilled to announce the release of Open Liberty 23.0.0.3, one of the biggest releases of the runtime since its debut over 5 years ago!  This release includes Jakarta EE 10 Platform, Web Profile, and, for the first time, Core Profile.  Many new enhancements have been added throughout most of the features that make up the profiles.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
We're thrilled to announce the release of Open Liberty 23.0.0.3, one of the biggest releases of the runtime since its debut over 5 years ago!  This release includes Jakarta EE 10 Platform, Web Profile, and, for the first time, Core Profile.  Many new enhancements are added throughout most of the features that make up the profiles.

```

MicroProfile 6, which includes Jakarta EE Core Profile 10, also makes its formal debut in the 23.0.0.3 release.  It includes the new MicroProfile Telemetry 1.0 feature as well as updates to the Metrics, OpenAPI, and JWT Authentication specifications.

> Support for Java SE 20, the latest version as of writing, is also introduced in the 23.0.0.3 release and provides various new features as well as changes.  Many notable bug fixes are also included in this release.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Support for Java SE 20, the latest version as of this writing, is also introduced in the 23.0.0.3 release and provides various new features and changes. Many notable bug fixes are also included in this release.

```

Check out link:{url-prefix}/blog/?search=release&search!=beta[previous Open Liberty GA release blog posts].

[#run]

== Run your apps using 23.0.0.3

If you're using link:{url-prefix}/guides/maven-intro.html[Maven], here are the coordinates:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.openliberty</groupId>
    <artifactId>openliberty-runtime</artifactId>
    <version>23.0.0.3</version>
    <type>zip</type>
</dependency>
----

Or for link:{url-prefix}/guides/gradle-intro.html[Gradle]:

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    libertyRuntime group: 'io.openliberty', name: 'openliberty-runtime', version: '[23.0.0.3,)'
}
----

Or if you're using Docker:

[source]
----
FROM open-liberty
----

Or take a look at our link:{url-prefix}/downloads/[Downloads page].

[link=https://stackoverflow.com/tags/open-liberty]
image::img/blog/blog_btn_stack.svg[Ask a question on Stack Overflow, align="center"]

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // // 
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24758
// Contact/Reviewer: jhanders34,ReeceNana
// // // // // // // // 
[#jakarta10]
== Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile, Web Profile, and Platform

> Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile, Web Profile and Platform are now officially supported in Open Liberty! We'd like to start by taking the time to thank all those who provided feedback throughout our various betas.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile, Web Profile and Platform are now officially supported in Open Liberty! We'd like to start by thanking all those who provided feedback throughout our various betas.

```

> Jakarta EE 10 marks a major milestone as it is the first release to provide updates to the specifications since Java EE 8 in 2017 and, therefore, the first release to provide spec updates since being taken over by the Eclipse Foundation. Among the many updates to existing specifications, it also introduces the Core Profile. The Core Profile is specifically aimed at lightweight runtimes, like Open Liberty, that are optimized for running cloud-native Java microservices.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Jakarta EE 10 marks a major milestone. It is the first release to provide updates to the specifications since Java EE 8 in 2017 and, therefore, the first to provide spec updates since the spec was taken over by the Eclipse Foundation. Among the many updates to existing specifications, it also introduces the Core Profile. The Core Profile is aimed at lightweight runtimes, like Open Liberty, that are optimized for running cloud-native Java microservices.

```

 
Liberty provides convenience features for running all of the component specifications that are contained in the Jakarta EE 10 Web Profile (`link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/webProfile-10.0.html[webProfile-10.0]`) and Jakarta EE 10 Platform (`link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/jakartaee-10.0.html[jakartaee-10.0]`).  For Jakarta EE 10 features in the application client, use the `jakartaeeClient-10.0` Liberty feature.

> Using these convenience features enables developers to rapidly develop applications using all of the APIs contained in the Web Profile and Platform specifications. If you've previously used the `webProfile-9.1` Liberty convenience feature, note that, unlike the `webProfile-9.1` feature, the `webProfile-10.0` Liberty feature does not enable the XML Binding feature because XML Binding is not a Web Profile component specification. If your application relies on XML Binding APIs, you must explicitly enable the `xmlBinding-4.0` Liberty feature when using the `webProfile-10.0` feature.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to just drop these two paragraphs completely?
The first one is largely handled at the end of the Jakarta section, and the second paragraph seems a bit too specific compared the broad scoped nature of the post.

> Using these convenience features enables developers to rapidly develop applications using all of the APIs contained in the Web Profile and Platform specifications. If you've previously used the `webProfile-9.1` Liberty convenience feature, note that, unlike the `webProfile-9.1` feature, the `webProfile-10.0` Liberty feature does not enable the XML Binding feature because XML Binding is not a Web Profile component specification. If your application relies on XML Binding APIs, you must explicitly enable the `xmlBinding-4.0` Liberty feature when using the `webProfile-10.0` feature.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
These convenience features enable you to rapidly develop applications using all of the APIs contained in the Web Profile and Platform specifications. If you've previously used the `webProfile-9.1` Liberty convenience feature, note that, unlike the `webProfile-9.1` feature, the `webProfile-10.0` Liberty feature does not enable the XML Binding feature because XML Binding is not a Web Profile component specification. If your application relies on XML Binding APIs, you must explicitly enable the `xmlBinding-4.0` Liberty feature when you use the `webProfile-10.0` feature.

```

Reviewer 2: still considering dropping this all together.

> The full list of specifications that make up the three profiles is as follows:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The following specifications make up the three profiles:

```

|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/appAuthorization-2.1.html[appAuthorization-2.1]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/activation/2.1/[Activation 2.1]
|Minor update
|Not applicable (see link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/javadoc/liberty-jakartaee10-javadoc.html?package=allclasses-frame.html&class=jakarta/activation/package-summary.html[Javadoc])

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/batch/2.1/[Batch 2.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/batch-2.1.html[batch-2.1]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/connectors/2.1/[Connectors 2.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/connectors-2.1.html[connectors-2.1]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/mail/2.1/[Mail 2.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mail-2.1.html[mail-2.1]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/messaging/3.1/[Messaging 3.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/messaging-3.1.html[messaging-3.1]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/enterprise-beans/4.0/[Enterprise Beans 4.0]
|No change
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/enterpriseBeans-4.0.html[enterpriseBeans-4.0]

|===

> To enable all the Jakarta EE Platform 10 features, add the following entry to your `server.xml`:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
To enable the Jakarta EE Platform 10 features, add the `jakartaee-10.0` feature to your `server.xml` file:

```

[source,xml]
----
  <featureManager>
    <feature>jakartaee-10.0</feature>
  </featureManager>
----

> Alternatively, to enable all the Jakarta EE Web Profile 10 features, instead add:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Alternatively, to enable the Jakarta EE Web Profile 10 features, add the `webProfile-10.0` feature to your `server.xml` file:

```

[source,xml]
----
  <featureManager>
    <feature>webProfile-10.0</feature>
  </featureManager>
----

> Alternatively, to enable the Jakarta EE Core Profile 10 features, add:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Although no convenience feature exists for the Core Profile, you can enable the its equivalent by adding the following features to your `server.xml` file:

```

[source,xml]
----
  <featureManager>
    <feature>jsonb-3.0</feature>
    <feature>jsonp-2.1</feature>
    <feature>cdi-4.0</feature>
    <feature>restfulWS-3.1</feature>
  </featureManager>
----

> To run Jakarta EE 10 features on the Application Client Container, add the following entry in your application's `client.xml`:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
To run Jakarta EE 10 features on the Application Client Container, add the following entry in your application's `client.xml` file:

```

I left this one as "following entry" only because I'm not sure how common it is to have a featureManager element in the client.xml

Also- do we need to update the feature description in the metadata for this feature? The generated feature description in the docs says

> To enable the Jakarta EE 10.0 Application Client feature, add the following element declaration into your server.xml file, inside the featureManager element:

Reviewer 2: @jhanders34 ^

[source,xml]
----
  <featureManager>
    <feature>jakartaeeClient-10.0</feature>
  </featureManager>
----
For more information reference:

* https://jakarta.ee/specifications/platform/10/[Jakarta EE Platform 10], https://jakarta.ee/specifications/webprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Web Profile 10], and link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/coreprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Core Profile 10] specifications. 

* link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/javadoc/liberty-jakartaee10-javadoc.html[Jakarta EE 10 Javadoc]

> 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/diff/jakarta-ee10-diff.html[Differences between Jakarta EE 10 and 9.1]

```

// DO NOT MODIFY THIS LINE. </GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> 

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // // 
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24582
// Contact/Reviewer: ReeceNana,Emily-Jiang
// // // // // // // // 
[#mp6]
== MicroProfile 6.0   

> MicroProfile continues to innovate how the industry optimizes Java microservices.  The MicroProfile 6.0 release enables applications to use MicroProfile APIs together with <<core, Jakarta EE Core Profile 10>> along with various other new functionality and improvements. The complete list of specifications that make up MicroProfile 6.0 is as follows:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
MicroProfile continues to innovate how the industry optimizes Java microservices. The MicroProfile 6.0 release enables applications to use MicroProfile APIs together with <<core, Jakarta EE Core Profile 10>> along with various other new functions and improvements. The following specifications make up MicroProfile 6.0:

```

[[jwt]]
|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-jwt-auth/releases/tag/2.1[MicroProfile JWT Authentication 2.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpJwt-2.1.html[mpJwt-2.1]

|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-config/releases/tag/3.0.2[MicroProfile Config 3.0]
|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpConfig-3.0.html[mpConfig-3.0]

|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-health/releases/tag/4.0.1[MicroProfile Health 4.0]
|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpHealth-4.0.html[mpHealth-4.0]

|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-rest-client/releases/tag/3.0.1[MicroProfile Rest Client 3.0]
|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpRestClient-3.0.html[mpRestClient-3.0]

|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-fault-tolerance/releases/tag/4.0.2[MicroProfile Fault Tolerance 4.0]
|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpFaultTolerance-4.0.html[mpFaultTolerance-4.0]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/coreprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Core Profile 10]

|New
|<<coreprofile, See Core Profile table>>

|===

> To enable all the MicroProfile 6 features, add the following entry to your `server.xml`:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
To enable all the MicroProfile 6 features, add the `microProfile-6.0` to your `server.xml` file:

```

[source,xml]
----
  <featureManager>
    <feature>microProfile-6.0</feature>
  </featureManager>
----
    

> To find out more, take a look at the MicroProfile 6.0 https://download.eclipse.org/microprofile/microprofile-6.0/microprofile-spec-6.0.html[specification], https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile/releases/tag/6.0[release], and link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/javadoc/microprofile-6.0-javadoc.html[Javadoc].

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
To find out more, take a look at the MicroProfile 6.0 https://download.eclipse.org/microprofile/microprofile-6.0/microprofile-spec-6.0.html[specification], https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile/releases/tag/6.0[release], link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/javadoc/microprofile-6.0-javadoc.html[Javadoc], and link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/diff/mp-50-60-diff.html[Differences between MicroProfile 6.0 and 5.0].

```

   
// DO NOT MODIFY THIS LINE. </GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> 

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // // 
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24759
// Contact/Reviewer: gjwatts,ReeceNana
// // // // // // // // 
[#java20]
== Support for Java SE 20

Java 20 includes the following features and changes:

* 429: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/429[Scoped Values (Incubator)]
* 432: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/432[Record Patterns (Second Preview)]
* 433: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/433[Pattern Matching for switch (Fourth Preview)]
* 434: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/434[Foreign Function & Memory API (Second Preview)]
* 436: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/436[Virtual Threads (Second Preview)]
* 437: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/437[Structured Concurrency (Second Incubator)]

To use Java 20: 

1. link:https://adoptium.net/temurin/releases/?version=20[Download Java 20].

2. Obtain the <<run,23.0.0.3>> version of Open Liberty.

3. Edit your Liberty link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/config/server-configuration-overview.html#server-env[server.env file] to point `JAVA_HOME` to your Java 20 installation.

> For more information on Java 20, reference the Java 20 link:https://jdk.java.net/20/release-notes[release notes page], link:link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/docs/api/index.html[API Javadoc page], link:https://adoptium.net/temurin/releases/?version=20[download page] or link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/migrate/toc.htm[Java 20 migration guide].

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
For more information on Java 20, reference the Java 20 link:https://jdk.java.net/20/release-notes[release notes page], link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/docs/api/index.html[API Javadoc page], link:https://adoptium.net/temurin/releases/?version=20[download page] or link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/migrate/toc.htm[Java 20 migration guide].

```

NOTE: To try out Java 20 preview features in Open Liberty, make sure to compile with `--enable-preview` and add the same parameter to your link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/directory-locations-properties.html[`jvm.options` file].

   
// DO NOT MODIFY THIS LINE. </GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> 

[#bugs]
== Notable bugs fixed in this release

We’ve spent some time fixing bugs. The following sections describe just some of the issues resolved in this release. If you’re interested, here’s the link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues?q=label%3Arelease%3A23003+label%3A%22release+bug%22[full list of bugs fixed in 23.0.0.3].

> * link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24651[Liberty Server Hang randomly]

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24651[Liberty server hangs randomly]

```

+

> Liberty Server hang happened randomly within docker containers which are deployed in k8s cluster in an Integration Pipeline. The javacore dumps were collected to analyze the issue. 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Liberty Server hang happened randomly within Docker containers that are deployed in a K8s cluster in an integration pipeline. The javacore dumps were collected to analyze the issue. 

```

In one javacore, one deadlock was identified and all operational threads are blocked due to the deadlock

> ```

Reviewer 7: i think you need a plus (+)  here to bring example under bullet and enable the other plus formatting at line 512

          at com/ibm/ws/channel/ssl/internal/SSLConnectionLink.determineNextChannel(SSLConnectionLink.java:1129)
          at com/ibm/ws/channel/ssl/internal/SSLConnectionLink$MyReadCompletedCallback.complete(SSLConnectionLink.java:678)
          at com/ibm/ws/channel/ssl/internal/SSLReadServiceContext$SSLReadCompletedCallback.complete(SSLReadServiceContext.java:1824)
          at com/ibm/ws/tcpchannel/internal/WorkQueueManager.requestComplete(WorkQueueManager.java:514)
          at com/ibm/ws/tcpchannel/internal/WorkQueueManager.attemptIO(WorkQueueManager.java:584(Compiled Code))
          at com/ibm/ws/tcpchannel/internal/WorkQueueManager.workerRun(WorkQueueManager.java:968)
          at com/ibm/ws/tcpchannel/internal/WorkQueueManager$Worker.run(WorkQueueManager.java:1057)
          at com/ibm/ws/threading/internal/ExecutorServiceImpl$RunnableWrapper.run(ExecutorServiceImpl.java:245(Compiled Code))
          at java/util/concurrent/ThreadPoolExecutor.runWorker(Bytecode PC:94(Compiled Code))
          at java/util/concurrent/ThreadPoolExecutor$Worker.run(Bytecode PC:5)
          at java/lang/Thread.run(Bytecode PC:13)
```

> +

Reviewer 7: this isn't rendering properly, in think because the list formatting is broken by the absence of a plus at line 426

In another javacore generated in different time when server hang, there were thousands locks of `JIT-QueueSlotMonitor-<number> lock` like below, which is very abnormal

> ```

Reviewer 7: probably need one here too if this example should be under first bullet

2LKREGMON          JIT-QueueSlotMonitor-3762 lock (0x00007F28A8239688): <unowned>
2LKREGMON          JIT-QueueSlotMonitor-3763 lock (0x00007F28A8239738): <unowned>
2LKREGMON          JIT-QueueSlotMonitor-3764 lock (0x00007F28A82397E8): <unowned>
2LKREGMON          JIT-QueueSlotMonitor-3765 lock (0x00007F28A8239898): <unowned>
2LKREGMON          JIT-QueueSlotMonitor-3766 lock (0x00007F28A8239948): <unowned>
2LKREGMON          JIT-QueueSlotMonitor-3767 lock (0x00007F28A82399F8): <unowned>
2LKREGMON          JIT-QueueSlotMonitor-3768 lock (0x00007F28A8239AA8): <unowned>
2LKREGMON          JIT-QueueSlotMonitor-3769 lock (0x00007F28A8239B58): <unowned>
2LKREGMON          JIT-QueueSlotMonitor-3770 lock (0x00007F28A8239C08): <unowned>
2LKREGMON          JIT-QueueSlotMonitor-3771 lock (0x00007F28A8239CB8): <unowned>
2LKREGMON          JIT-QueueSlotMonitor-3772 lock (0x00007F28A8239D68): <unowned>
2LKREGMON          JIT-QueueSlotMonitor-3773 lock (0x00007F28A8239E18): <unowned>
```

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24631[Fix ClassCastException during the de-serialization of CDI Injected Event]
+

> A passivated (i.e. serializable) bean which has an injected jakarta.enterprise.event.Event (or javax equivalent) will not be properly restored.  This can be encountered when session persistence is enabled and session data is serialized and de-serialized from a database.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
A passivated (i.e. serializable) bean that has an injected `jakarta.enterprise.event.Event` (or javax equivalent) is not properly restored.  This error might be encountered when session persistence is enabled and session data is serialized and de-serialized from a database.

```

+

> The FFDC: 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The FFDC log output: 

```

```
Stack Dump = java.lang.ClassCastException: cannot assign instance of org.jboss.weld.event.EventImpl$SerializationProxy to field org.apache.myfaces.flow.cdi.FlowScopeContextualStorageHolder.flowDestroyedEvent of type jakarta.enterprise.event.Event in instance of org.apache.myfaces.flow.cdi.FlowScopeContextualStorageHolder
	at java.base/java.io.ObjectStreamClass$FieldReflector.setObjFieldValues(ObjectStreamClass.java:2076)
	at java.base/java.io.ObjectStreamClass$FieldReflector.checkObjectFieldValueTypes(ObjectStreamClass.java:2039)
	at java.base/java.io.ObjectStreamClass.checkObjFieldValueTypes(ObjectStreamClass.java:1293)
	at java.base/java.io.ObjectInputStream.defaultCheckFieldValues(ObjectInputStream.java:2512)
```

>  

Reviewer 7: do we need to say whether this is fixed?

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24584[pluginUtility merge action generates incorrect output for some inputs]
+

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24566[AcmeCA feature with revocation enabled can fail to initialize on certain OS and JDK combinations]
+

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24543[oidc client issue in cluster environment, starting 22.0.0.10 version]
+

> OIDC client feature in cluster environment fails on one cluster member (after applying WLP V22.0.0.10)

Reviewer 7: should WLP V22.0.0.10 be Open Liberty version 22.0.0.10 ?

open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
open-graph-image-alt: Open Liberty Logo
---
= Jakarta EE 10, MicroProfile 6, and Java SE 20 support in Open Liberty 23.0.0.3
Michal Broz <https://github.com/mbroz2>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

We're thrilled to announce the release of Open Liberty 23.0.0.3, one of the biggest releases of the runtime since its debut over 5 years ago!  This release includes Jakarta EE 10 Platform, Web Profile, and, for the first time, Core Profile.  Many new enhancements are added throughout most of the features that make up the profiles.

MicroProfile 6, which includes Jakarta EE Core Profile 10, also makes its formal debut in the 23.0.0.3 release.  It includes the new MicroProfile Telemetry 1.0 feature as well as updates to the Metrics, OpenAPI, and JWT Authentication specifications.

> Support for Java SE 20, the latest version as of this writing, is also introduced in the 23.0.0.3 release and provides various new features and changes. Many notable bug fixes are also included in this release.

Reviewer 5: `in this release` is a little ambiguous.  Is it referring to the release of Liberty or the new version of Java.  I think the former.  Maybe should change to `in this release of Open Liberty` to remove any confusion of which `release` is being referenced?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Support for Java SE 20, the latest version as of this writing, is also introduced in the 23.0.0.3 release and provides various new features and changes. Many notable bug fixes are also included in this Open Liberty release.
```

In link:{url-about}[Open Liberty] 23.0.0.3:

* <<jakarta10, Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile, Web Profile, and Platform>>
** <<coreprofile, Core Profile>>
** <<webprofile, Web Profile>>
** <<platform, Platform>>

* <<mp6, MicroProfile 6.0>>
** <<telemetry, MicroProfile Telemetry 1.0>>
** <<metrics, MicroProfile Metrics 5.0>>
** <<openapi, MicroProfile OpenAPI 3.1>>
** <<jwt, MicroProfile JWT Authentication 2.1>>
* <<java20, Support for Java SE 20>>
* <<bugs, Notable bug fixes>>

Check out link:{url-prefix}/blog/?search=release&search!=beta[previous Open Liberty GA release blog posts].

[#run]

== Run your apps using 23.0.0.3

If you're using link:{url-prefix}/guides/maven-intro.html[Maven], here are the coordinates:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.openliberty</groupId>
    <artifactId>openliberty-runtime</artifactId>
    <version>23.0.0.3</version>
    <type>zip</type>
</dependency>
----

Or for link:{url-prefix}/guides/gradle-intro.html[Gradle]:

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    libertyRuntime group: 'io.openliberty', name: 'openliberty-runtime', version: '[23.0.0.3,)'
}
----

Or if you're using Docker:

[source]
----

> FROM open-liberty

Reviewer 5: Should we change this to reference icr.io?

`FROM icr.io/appcafe/open-liberty` or a specific open-liberty container image?  Maybe instead of `Docker` above it should say `container environment`?

----

> 

Reviewer 5: Do we want to reference the EE10 and MP6 downloads in this section considering we are introducing those downloads in this release?

Or take a look at our link:{url-prefix}/downloads/[Downloads page].

[link=https://stackoverflow.com/tags/open-liberty]
image::img/blog/blog_btn_stack.svg[Ask a question on Stack Overflow, align="center"]

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // // 
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24758
// Contact/Reviewer: jhanders34,ReeceNana
// // // // // // // // 
[#jakarta10]
== Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile, Web Profile, and Platform
Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile, Web Profile and Platform are now officially supported in Open Liberty! We'd like to start by thanking all those who provided feedback throughout our various betas.

> Jakarta EE 10 marks a major milestone. It is the first release to provide updates to the specifications since Java EE 8 in 2017 and, therefore, the first to provide spec updates since the spec was taken over by the Eclipse Foundation. Among the many updates to existing specifications, it also introduces the Core Profile. The Core Profile is aimed at lightweight runtimes, like Open Liberty, that are optimized for running cloud-native Java microservices.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Jakarta EE 10 marks a major milestone. It is the first Jakarta release to provide updates to the specifications since Java EE 8 in 2017 and, therefore, the first to provide spec updates since the spec was taken over by the Eclipse Foundation. Among the many updates to existing specifications, it also introduces the Core Profile. The Core Profile is aimed at lightweight runtimes, like Open Liberty, that are optimized for running cloud-native Java microservices.

```

> Liberty provides convenience features for running all of the component specifications that are contained in the Jakarta EE 10 Web Profile (`link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/webProfile-10.0.html[webProfile-10.0]`) and Jakarta EE 10 Platform (`link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/jakartaee-10.0.html[jakartaee-10.0]`).  For Jakarta EE 10 features in the application client, use the `jakartaeeClient-10.0` Liberty feature.  These convenience features enable you to rapidly develop applications using all of the APIs contained in their respective specifications.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Liberty provides convenience features for running all of the component specifications that are contained in the Jakarta EE 10 Web Profile (`link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/webProfile-10.0.html[webProfile-10.0]`) and Jakarta EE 10 Platform (`link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/jakartaee-10.0.html[jakartaee-10.0]`). These convenience features enable you to rapidly develop applications using all of the APIs contained in their respective specifications. For Jakarta EE 10 features in the application client, use the `link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/jakartaeeClient-10.0.html[jakartaeeClient-10.0]` Liberty feature.
```
jakartaEEClient-10.0 isn't a convenience feature that includes other features in it which is why I changed the order.  If you think it should remain the way it was I am fine with that, but we should point to the doc for jakartaeeClient-10.0 like we do for the other two feature referenced.

Should we have a statement to this paragraph about how to enable all of the Core Profile features?  Something like 

A Liberty convenience feature is not provided for the Core Profile, but its features are easily made available by enabling the RESTful Web Services 3.1 ('link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/restfulWS-3.1.html[restfulWS-3.1]') and JSON Binding 3.0 ('link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/jsonb-3.0.html[jsonb-3.0]') Liberty Features.

I am thinking that sentence could go as the third sentence in my suggestion above.

Reviewer 5: I see what you mean about removing this paragraph.  I could also see moving it after the table before you provide the examples on how to configure the features in the server.xml

Reviewer 2: I like the move to the bottom

> The following specifications make up the three profiles:

Reviewer 5: Platform is not a profile.
```suggestion
The following specifications make up the Jakarta Platform and the Core and Web profiles:
```

[#coreprofile]

> === Jakarta EE Core Profile 10

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
=== link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/coreprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Core Profile 10]
```

Reviewer 2: there's already 2 links to this so I'd rather not make the table title another link

[cols="4,2,3",options="header"]
|===
|Specification |Updates |Liberty Feature Documentation
[[cdi-lite]]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/cdi/4.0/[Context Dependency Injection 4.0 Lite]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/cdi/4.0/[Context and Dependency Injection 4.0 Lite]
```

|*New*
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/cdi-4.0.html[cdi-4.0]

[[jsonb]]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/jsonb/3.0/[JSON Binding 3.0]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/jsonb/3.0/[JSON Binding 3.0]
```

Reviewer 2: This is unnecessary for URL macros

|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/jsonb-3.0.html[jsonb-3.0]

[[rest]]

> |link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/restful-ws/3.1/jakarta-restful-ws-spec-3.1.html[RESTful Web Services 3.1]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/restful-ws/3.1/[RESTful Web Services 3.1]
```

|Minor update

> |link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/restfulWS-3.1.html[restfulWS-3.1], link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/restfulWS-3.1.html[restfulWSClient-3.1]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/restfulWS-3.1.html[restfulWS-3.1], link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/restfulWSClient-3.1.html[restfulWSClient-3.1]
```

[[jsonp]]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/jsonp/2.1/[JSON Processing 2.1]
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/jsonp/2.1/[JSON Processing 2.1]
```

|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/jsonp-2.1.html[jsonp-2.1]

[[cdi]]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/annotations/2.1/[Annotations 2.1] & https://jakarta.ee/specifications/interceptors/2.1/[Interceptors 2.1]
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/annotations/2.1/[Annotations 2.1] & link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/interceptors/2.1/[Interceptors 2.1]
```

|Minor updates
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/cdi-4.0.html[cdi-4.0]

[[cdi]]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/dependency-injection/2.0/[Dependency Injection 2.0]
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/dependency-injection/2.0/[Dependency Injection 2.0]
```

|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/cdi-4.0.html[cdi-4.0]

|===

[#webprofile]

> === Jakarta EE Web Profile 10

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
=== link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/webprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Web Profile 10]
```

[cols="4,2,3",options="header"]

|===
|Specification |Updates |Liberty Feature Documentation

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/coreprofile/10/[Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/coreprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Core Profile 10]
```

|*New*
|<<coreprofile, See previous table>>

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/authentication/3.0/[Authentication 3.0]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/authentication/3.0/[Authentication 3.0]
```

|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/appAuthentication-3.0.html[appAuthentication-3.0]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/cdi/4.0/[Context and Dependency Injection 4.0]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/cdi/4.0/[Context and Dependency Injection 4.0]
```

|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/cdi-4.0.html[cdi-4.0]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/concurrency/3.0/[Concurrency 3.0]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/concurrency/3.0/[Concurrency 3.0]
```

|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/concurrent-3.0.html[concurrent-3.0]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/expression-language/5.0/[Expression Language 5.0]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/expression-language/5.0/[Expression Language 5.0]
```

|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/expressionLanguage-5.0.html[expressionLanguage-5.0]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/faces/4.0/[Server Faces 4.0]

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/faces/4.0/[Faces 4.0]
```

|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/faces-4.0.html[faces-4.0]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/security/3.0/[Security 3.0]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/security/3.0/[Security 3.0]
```

|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/appSecurity-5.0.html[appSecurity-5.0]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/servlet/6.0/[Servlet 6.0]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/servlet/6.0/[Servlet 6.0]
```

|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/servlet-6.0.html[servlet-6.0]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/tags/3.0/[Standard Tag Library 3.0]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/tags/3.0/[Standard Tag Library 3.0]
```

|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/pages-3.1.html[pages-3.1]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/persistence/3.1/[Persistence 3.1]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/persistence/3.1/[Persistence 3.1]
```

|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/persistence-3.1.html[persistence-3.1]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/pages/3.1/[Server Pages 3.1]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/pages/3.1/[Server Pages 3.1]
```

|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/pages-3.1.html[pages-3.1]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/websocket/2.1/[WebSocket 2.1]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/websocket/2.1/[WebSocket 2.1]
```

|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/websocket-2.1.html[websocket-2.1]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/bean-validation/3.0/[Bean Validation 3.0]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/bean-validation/3.0/[Bean Validation 3.0]
```

|No change
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/beanValidation-3.0.html[beanValidation-3.0]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/debugging/2.0/[Debugging Support for Other Languages 2.0]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/debugging/2.0/[Debugging Support for Other Languages 2.0]
```

|No change
|Not applicable

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/enterprise-beans/4.0/[Enterprise Beans 4.0 Lite]
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/enterprise-beans/4.0/[Enterprise Beans 4.0 Lite]
```

|No change
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/enterpriseBeansLite-4.0.html[enterpriseBeansLite-4.0]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/managedbeans/2.0/[Managed Beans 2.0]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/managedbeans/2.0/[Managed Beans 2.0]
```

|No change
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/managedBeans-2.0.html[managedBeans-2.0]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/transactions/2.0/[Transactions 2.0]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/transactions/2.0/[Transactions 2.0]
```

|No change
|Not applicable (see link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/javadoc/liberty-jakartaee10-javadoc.html?package=allclasses-frame.html&class=jakarta/transaction/package-summary.html[Javadoc])

|===

[#platform]

> === Jakarta EE Platform 10

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
=== link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/platform/10/[Jakarta EE Platform 10]
```

[cols="4,2,3",options="header"]

|===
|Specification |Updates |Liberty Feature Documentation

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/webprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Web Profile 10 Specification]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/webprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Web Profile 10]
```

|Major update
|<<webprofile, See previous table>>

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/authorization/2.1/[Authorization 2.1]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/authorization/2.1/[Authorization 2.1]
```

|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/appAuthorization-2.1.html[appAuthorization-2.1]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/activation/2.1/[Activation 2.1]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/activation/2.1/[Activation 2.1]
```

|Minor update
|Not applicable (see link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/javadoc/liberty-jakartaee10-javadoc.html?package=allclasses-frame.html&class=jakarta/activation/package-summary.html[Javadoc])

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/batch/2.1/[Batch 2.1]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/batch/2.1/[Batch 2.1]
```

|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/batch-2.1.html[batch-2.1]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/connectors/2.1/[Connectors 2.1]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/connectors/2.1/[Connectors 2.1]
```

|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/connectors-2.1.html[connectors-2.1]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/mail/2.1/[Mail 2.1]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/mail/2.1/[Mail 2.1]
```

|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mail-2.1.html[mail-2.1]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/messaging/3.1/[Messaging 3.1]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/messaging/3.1/[Messaging 3.1]
```

|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/messaging-3.1.html[messaging-3.1]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/enterprise-beans/4.0/[Enterprise Beans 4.0]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/enterprise-beans/4.0/[Enterprise Beans 4.0]
```

|No change
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/enterpriseBeans-4.0.html[enterpriseBeans-4.0]

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/xml-binding/4.0/[XML Binding 4.0] (optional)
|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/xmlBinding-4.0.html[xmlBinding-4.0]

|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/xml-web-services/4.0/[XML Web Services 4.0] (optional)
|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/xmlWS-4.0.html[xmlWS-4.0]

```

|===

To enable all the Jakarta EE Platform 10 features, add the following entry to your `server.xml`:

[source,xml]
----
  <featureManager>
    <feature>jakartaee-10.0</feature>
  </featureManager>
----

Alternatively, to enable all the Jakarta EE Web Profile 10 features, instead add:

[source,xml]
----
  <featureManager>
    <feature>webProfile-10.0</feature>
  </featureManager>
----

Although no convenience feature exists for the Core Profile, you can enable the its equivalent by adding the following features to your `server.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
  <featureManager>
    <feature>jsonb-3.0</feature>
    <feature>jsonp-2.1</feature>
    <feature>cdi-4.0</feature>
    <feature>restfulWS-3.1</feature>
  </featureManager>
----

To run Jakarta EE 10 features on the Application Client Container, add the following entry in your application's `client.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
  <featureManager>
    <feature>jakartaeeClient-10.0</feature>
  </featureManager>
----
For more information reference:

> * https://jakarta.ee/specifications/platform/10/[Jakarta EE Platform 10], https://jakarta.ee/specifications/webprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Web Profile 10], and link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/coreprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Core Profile 10] specifications. 

Reviewer 5: This is covered now in the updates I made above.  Not sure if it is needed here any longer.

Reviewer 2: I'm going to keep them down here instead of making the table titles into links

* link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/javadoc/liberty-jakartaee10-javadoc.html[Jakarta EE 10 Javadoc]

> * link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/diff/jakarta-ee10-diff.html[Differences between Jakarta EE 10 and 9.1]

Reviewer 5: Personally I would like this information above the table instead of below it.

// DO NOT MODIFY THIS LINE. </GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> 

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // // 
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24582
// Contact/Reviewer: ReeceNana,Emily-Jiang
// // // // // // // // 
[#mp6]
== MicroProfile 6.0   

MicroProfile continues to innovate how the industry optimizes Java microservices. The MicroProfile 6.0 release enables applications to use MicroProfile APIs together with <<core, Jakarta EE Core Profile 10>> along with various other new functions and improvements. The following specifications make up MicroProfile 6.0:

[cols="4,2,3",options="header"]

|===
|Specification |Updates |Liberty Feature Documentation

[[telemetry]]

> |https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-telemetry/releases/tag/1.0[MicroProfile Telemetry 1.0]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-telemetry/releases/tag/1.0[MicroProfile Telemetry 1.0]
```

|*New*
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpTelemetry-1.0.html[mpTelemetry-1.0]

[[metrics]]

> |https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-metrics/releases/tag/5.0[MicroProfile Metrics 5.0]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-metrics/releases/tag/5.0[MicroProfile Metrics 5.0]
```

|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpMetrics-5.0.html[mpMetrics-5.0]

[[openapi]]

> |https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-open-api/releases/tag/3.1[MicroProfile OpenAPI 3.1]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-open-api/releases/tag/3.1[MicroProfile OpenAPI 3.1]
```

|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpOpenAPI-3.1.html[mpOpenAPI-3.1]

[[jwt]]

> |https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-jwt-auth/releases/tag/2.1[MicroProfile JWT Authentication 2.1]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-jwt-auth/releases/tag/2.1[MicroProfile JWT Authentication 2.1]
```

|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpJwt-2.1.html[mpJwt-2.1]

> |https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-config/releases/tag/3.0.2[MicroProfile Config 3.0]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-config/releases/tag/3.0.2[MicroProfile Config 3.0]
```

|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpConfig-3.0.html[mpConfig-3.0]

> |https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-health/releases/tag/4.0.1[MicroProfile Health 4.0]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-health/releases/tag/4.0.1[MicroProfile Health 4.0]
```

|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpHealth-4.0.html[mpHealth-4.0]

> |https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-rest-client/releases/tag/3.0.1[MicroProfile Rest Client 3.0]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-rest-client/releases/tag/3.0.1[MicroProfile Rest Client 3.0]
```

|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpRestClient-3.0.html[mpRestClient-3.0]

> |https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-fault-tolerance/releases/tag/4.0.2[MicroProfile Fault Tolerance 4.0]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-fault-tolerance/releases/tag/4.0.2[MicroProfile Fault Tolerance 4.0]
```

|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpFaultTolerance-4.0.html[mpFaultTolerance-4.0]

> |https://jakarta.ee/specifications/coreprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Core Profile 10]
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|link:https://jakarta.ee/specifications/coreprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Core Profile 10]
```

open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
open-graph-image-alt: Open Liberty Logo
---
= Jakarta EE 10, MicroProfile 6, and Java SE 20 support in Open Liberty 23.0.0.3
Michal Broz <https://github.com/mbroz2>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

We're thrilled to announce the release of Open Liberty 23.0.0.3, one of the biggest releases of the runtime since its debut over 5 years ago!  This release includes Jakarta EE 10 Platform, Web Profile, and, for the first time, Core Profile.  Many new enhancements have been added throughout most of the features that make up the profiles.

MicroProfile 6, which includes Jakarta EE Core Profile 10, also makes its formal debut in the 23.0.0.3 release.  It includes the new MicroProfile Telemetry 1.0 feature as well as updates to the Metrics, OpenAPI, and JWT Authentication specifications.

Support for Java SE 20, the latest version as of writing, is also introduced in the 23.0.0.3 release and provides various new features as well as changes.  Many notable bug fixes are also included in this release.

> // Over the past several beta releases, we've had many users try and provide feedback on various Jakarta EE 10 and MicroProfile 6 features.  We've received many questions on when the functionality would GA.  Well, the when is now!  Open Liberty 23.0.0.3 includes Jakarta EE 10 (Core Profile, Web Profile, and Platform), MicroProfile 6, and Java SE 20 support.
> // You wanted Jakarta EE 10? You got it! How about MicroProfile 6? Sure, why not!  A Cherry on top? How about Java SE 20 support!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

[link=https://stackoverflow.com/tags/open-liberty]
image::img/blog/blog_btn_stack.svg[Ask a question on Stack Overflow, align="center"]

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // // 
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24758
// Contact/Reviewer: jhanders34,ReeceNana
// // // // // // // // 
[#jakarta10]
== Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile, Web Profile, and Platform
Jakarta EE 10 Core Profile, Web Profile and Platform are now officially supported in Open Liberty! We'd like to start by thanking all those who provided feedback throughout our various betas.

Jakarta EE 10 marks a major milestone. It is the first Jakarta release to provide updates to the specifications since Java EE 8 in 2017 and, therefore, the first to provide spec updates since the spec was taken over by the Eclipse Foundation. Among the many updates to existing specifications, it also introduces the Core Profile. The Core Profile is aimed at lightweight runtimes, like Open Liberty, that are optimized for running cloud-native Java microservices.

> 
> Liberty provides convenience features for running all of the component specifications that are contained in the Jakarta EE 10 Web Profile (`link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/webProfile-10.0.html[webProfile-10.0]`) and Jakarta EE 10 Platform (`link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/jakartaee-10.0.html[jakartaee-10.0]`).  For Jakarta EE 10 features in the application client, use the `jakartaeeClient-10.0` Liberty feature.  These convenience features enable you to rapidly develop applications using all of the APIs contained in their respective specifications.
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

It was copied instead of moved?

|Major update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/xmlWS-4.0.html[xmlWS-4.0]

|===

Liberty provides convenience features for running all of the component specifications that are contained in the Jakarta EE 10 Web Profile (`link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/webProfile-10.0.html[webProfile-10.0]`) and Jakarta EE 10 Platform (`link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/jakartaee-10.0.html[jakartaee-10.0]`). These convenience features enable you to rapidly develop applications using all of the APIs contained in their respective specifications. For Jakarta EE 10 features in the application client, use the `link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/jakartaeeClient-10.0.html[jakartaeeClient-10.0]` Liberty feature.

To enable the Jakarta EE Platform 10 features, add the `jakartaee-10.0` feature to your `server.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
  <featureManager>
    <feature>jakartaee-10.0</feature>
  </featureManager>
----

Alternatively, to enable the Jakarta EE Web Profile 10 features, add the `webProfile-10.0` feature to your `server.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
  <featureManager>
    <feature>webProfile-10.0</feature>
  </featureManager>
----

> Although no convenience feature exists for the Core Profile, you can enable the its equivalent by adding the following features to your `server.xml` file:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Although no convenience feature exists for the Core Profile, you can enable its equivalent by adding the following features to your `server.xml` file:

```

[[jwt]]
|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-jwt-auth/releases/tag/2.1[MicroProfile JWT Authentication 2.1]
|Minor update
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpJwt-2.1.html[mpJwt-2.1]

|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-config/releases/tag/3.0.2[MicroProfile Config 3.0]
|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpConfig-3.0.html[mpConfig-3.0]

|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-health/releases/tag/4.0.1[MicroProfile Health 4.0]
|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpHealth-4.0.html[mpHealth-4.0]

|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-rest-client/releases/tag/3.0.1[MicroProfile Rest Client 3.0]
|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpRestClient-3.0.html[mpRestClient-3.0]

|https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-fault-tolerance/releases/tag/4.0.2[MicroProfile Fault Tolerance 4.0]
|Unchanged
|link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/mpFaultTolerance-4.0.html[mpFaultTolerance-4.0]

|https://jakarta.ee/specifications/coreprofile/10/[Jakarta EE Core Profile 10]

|New
|<<coreprofile, See Core Profile table>>

|===

> To enable all the MicroProfile 6 features, add the `microProfile-6.0` to your `server.xml` file:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To enable all the MicroProfile 6 features, add the `microProfile-6.0` feature to your `server.xml` file:

```

   
// DO NOT MODIFY THIS LINE. </GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> 

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // // 
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/24759
// Contact/Reviewer: gjwatts,ReeceNana
// // // // // // // // 
[#java20]
== Support for Java SE 20

Java 20 includes the following features and changes:

* 429: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/429[Scoped Values (Incubator)]
* 432: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/432[Record Patterns (Second Preview)]
* 433: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/433[Pattern Matching for switch (Fourth Preview)]
* 434: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/434[Foreign Function & Memory API (Second Preview)]
* 436: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/436[Virtual Threads (Second Preview)]
* 437: link:https://openjdk.org/jeps/437[Structured Concurrency (Second Incubator)]

To use Java 20: 

1. link:https://adoptium.net/temurin/releases/?version=20[Download Java 20].

2. Obtain the <<run,23.0.0.3>> version of Open Liberty.

3. Edit your Liberty link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/config/server-configuration-overview.html#server-env[server.env file] to point `JAVA_HOME` to your Java 20 installation.

> For more information on Java 20, reference the Java 20 link:https://jdk.java.net/20/release-notes[release notes page], link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/docs/api/index.html[API Javadoc page], link:https://adoptium.net/temurin/releases/?version=20[download page] or link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/migrate/toc.htm[Java 20 migration guide].

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For more information on Java 20, reference the Java 20 link:https://jdk.java.net/20/release-notes[release notes page], link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/docs/api/index.html[API Javadoc page], link:https://adoptium.net/temurin/releases/?version=20[download page] and link:https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/migrate/toc.htm[Java 20 migration guide].

```
